---
layout: post
title:  Searching Solitude on Flinders
date:   2020-02-17 21:38:53 +0700
categories: Australia
description: You’ll find this post in your `_posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. # Add post description (optional)
img: FlindersPost.jpg # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Australia, Tasmania]
author: Oksana Protsukha # Add name author (optional)
---

#### Day 1: 2020-Feb-17

It’s a reset today. We are isolated from the rest of the world on Flinders island and the weather is well on its way to achieve 40 to 80 mm of precipitation, which is more than the average rainfall for February, the driest month on the island. For reference the average annual precipitation is 839 mm. 

Idea to visit Flinders island has been a captivating one considering the isolation of the area and challenges to get here. The island also boasts some of the most beautiful beaches in Tasmania, great wildlife, birdwatching and history. Flinders is the largest and the main island of the Furneaux islands group. 12000 years ago it was part of the Bassian Plain which served as a land bridge between the mainland Australia and Tasmania. With the end of the ice age the water levels raised and flooded parts of the Plain which is now constitutes the Bass Strait. 
With no land connection between neither Tasmania nor mainland Australia, Flinders is cut-off from both and the only way to get to the island is by air, serviced by Sharp Airlines, and a more off-the-beaten path cargo barge serviced by the Furneaux group ferry. For economical and logistical reasons we decided to take a barge to the island and fly out. Barge in itself has been an interesting experience and perhaps worth skipping the next time. 

The forecast was favorable at the time of booking the trip to Flinders with sunny weather and mostly cleared skies. Two days before our departure it changed drastically. For the only two days when we were supposed to be on the island we now expected heavy rain with the rest of the days before and after the trip sunny and clear. Tasmania once again proved that its weather is difficult to predict and any forecast more than two days away is not reliable. To make things worse, Flinders
is located on 40° south, a zone known as the Roaring Forties. It’s right in the wind corridor, a perfect place for wind turbines but less hospitable for picky tourists.

Barge. We planned to drop our rental car in Launceston and catch a 1-hr bus ride to the ferry terminal located in Bridgeport. In the morning I received an email asking whether we still planned to travel by barge and call the office to make the payment. The office closes at 4:30 pm while the barge departs at low tide with no guarantee departure due to unreliable weather. Once we dropped the car in the airport we called the office to process the payment. We were still determined to travel and make the most of the trip. Who knows... maybe the weather would prove better than expected. Launceston airport has been recently renovated with modern facilities and luggage storage. Uber pick-up zone is clearly marked at the airport. We took Uber to the bus stopped. A single bus ride per day is scheduled between Launceston and Bridgeport, perhaps due to the lack of the demand. We confirmed the schedule and the bus number and set to patiently wait for its arrival. An empty bus with no number pulled in right after we arrived. It was quite ahead of schedule for our bus and we continued to wait. The bus left, and we continued to wait. We started to be concerned after about 10 minutes passed after expected bus ETA. It was time to call the transit system. We only had 2.5 hr left before the ferry departure. The lady on the phone told us that the bus has already departed and was well on its way to the destination (?!) As it appeared the bus without a number was our bus, the only scheduled bus to Bridgeport. We tried to hitchhike for 20 minutes but running out of time turned back to Uber. Someone did decide to Uber us to Bridgeport. There was not a single car on the road until we reached Bridgeport. Probably not the easiest town to hitchhike in the low season. We made it to the ferry 20 minutes ahead of time, sufficient time to get dinner at the low-key cafe right by the terminal. They offer local seafood, smoothies and other expected miscellaneous such us pastries, burgers, coffee. At 6:30 pm we were on our way to the barge. Even though we knew this was a cargo barge, we were still surprised how much it lived up to its purpose. The barge can take up to 12 passengers and there is only seating area in the bottom section of the boat with no windows and access to fresh air. The hope to see a whale or an albatross quickly vanished. No one asked for our tickets, identification and provided no safety briefing before the departure. There were 5 passengers including us apart from the regular crew on the boat: an older man whose truck would not start and the crew member was trying to help him fix it and a couple traveling for two weeks to Flinders in the camper-van with a dog. Otherwise, there were cars, boats, cement making machine, sacks with cement, animal craters, animals and a farm spirit. Seating area had a broken TV, a row of working rain-boots, dirty uniforms and us. After some time contemplating why it takes 8 hours for the barge to travel 120 km (it’s a 25 min flight from Launceston) and how to make it through the night I fell asleep on one of the benches. I woke up when we finally arrived to the port of Lady sensing the changes in the boat movement or, perhaps, eagerly anticipating the arrival. It was 4:09 am and luckily we had a rental car dropped off at the port waiting for us. It is vital to have the drop-off arranged ahead of time if traveling by the barge as there is nothing within the walking distance to the port. I doubt anyone on the boat had noticed that we left. I wholeheartedly believe that someone from the crew would have woken us up but I would not count on it. We decided to sleep for a few hours in the nearest campground - Yellow Beach campground. When we arrived there was only one camper-van parked. Yellow Beach is a beautiful spot for camping with clean facilities, rain shelter, BBQ and a nice scenic beach. The sky was clear and due to low light pollution we were treated to a beautiful night sky. When we woke up the camper-van had already left and we were the only ones on the campground. The morning was sunny and warm, however windy. We could see clouds starting to form. After a morning stroll on the beach and greetings from a wallaby jumping by we headed to the visitor center. Being a low tourist season and 8 hours barge ride away from Tasmania we were the only ones in the visitor center and got well deserved personalized attention. The lady in the visitor center checked the weather forecast, suggested a campground with the shelter from the rain and things to do on the island during the wet weather. There were no much going on. The biggest offering of the island is the famed Strzelescki National Park and beaches. Taking advantage of the window of the warm and clear skies we decided to do Trousers point circuit in Strzelescki national park. It’s a beautiful 1.9 km walking track showcasing the coastal shrubs, granite rock formations covered in red lichen, white sand beach, vast views on Strzlescki peak which we hope to climb the next day. On our walk we had multiple sightings of green rosella (a parrot species endemic to Tasmania and Bass Strait islands), tiny and curious blue wren, wallaby, and echidna. At the end of the short walk we found ourselves on the picturesque beach overlooking Fotgeringate bay in complete solitude, a perfect spot to have a lunch picnic. It doesn’t get better than that and we would have stayed much longer enjoying the clear turquoise waters of the bay and chirping of the wrens occasionally interrupted by gurgles and whistles of a curravong, however the dark clouds moving towards us signaled that it was time to look for a shelter. 
